
This is a simplistic attempt to explain the various parts of an ingame script and how it works. It is by no means a complete explanation. To get further help, I recommend connecting to [Keen's official Discord](https://discord.gg/keenswh) and asking in the **#programmable-block** channel. There's usually plenty of people there to help you. I will be assuming that you're familiar with the game itself, and how to _use_ scripts, and how to load a script into a programmable block via the workshop button.

### The Language

First of all: The programmable block uses the programming language C# in order to provide high-performance automation for your builds. Before continuing you should get a basic grasp of the language itself. There are several tutorials on the web dealing with this, including [Microsoft's own](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/csharp). You might be able to find some tutorials which are better at explaining than them though, they tend to be rather obtuse. In the following tutorials I will be assuming at least a basic grasp of C#. If you find I don't explain some things well enough, please let me know - I might try to improve it.

### Writing Your Script
While you _can_ use the ingame editor, it's not very good. Its purpose is really just to be a storage box for the code. A lot of people uses [Visual Studio](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/install/install-visual-studio) (you're going to want the Community edition)-  and here I'm obviously going to point out my own extension, [MDK](https://github.com/malware-dev/MDK-SE/releases), which will help you set everything up for scripting with Visual Studio. There are other options though, other IDEs which works. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is another more lightweight IDE (don't get confused by the name, it's quite different from Visual Studio). I will not be talking about how to set up any other IDE though, it's beyond the scope of these tutorials. Others simply use a plain text editor like Notepad, but obviously that will give no help with the API.  Personally I used Visual Studio for scripting long before I made my extension. It's a professional IDE, and the Community edition is completely free and fully featured.

### API Listing
You'll find an [autogenerated API listing here](Api-Index). This contains all types and members available to ingame scripting - with exception to the .NET types, because including those would have made the listing far too big. There will be links to Microsoft's own documentation for those types where appropriate.

### The tutorials
See the other tutorials in the links bar to the right.